# Ranol-Fintech-Case-study

  Coinbase refers to exchanging cryptocurrency where individuals purchase common coins such as Solana Bitcoin and Ethereum. However, only some currencies are supported on Coinbase, but more than 120 cryptocurrencies exist on this platform. Moreover, a thousand types of cryptocurrencies exist worldwide. Coinbase allows users to trade with the most typical types of cryptocurrency, usually working well for multiple needs.

## Overview and Origin
  Coinbase is a technology company operating platforms for cryptocurrency exchange, and the company offers a wallet and exchange platform to enable potential consumers and merchants to do transactions of crypto coins. Also, the coin base allows users to buy, sell, send, and receive crypto. Coinbase allows users to purchase different types of cryptocurrencies, including Bitcoin, stellar lumens, USD coin, Ethereum, Cardano, tether, internet computer, chainlink, and other forms of cryptocurrencies through its platform. The company serves individuals and corporations. Coinbase operates in the US, the UK, Canada, Germany, India, and Ireland. The headquarters of Coinbase are based in San Francisco, California, the US.
  Coinbase was incorporated on 20 June 2012, but it launched its Bitcoin buying, selling, and storage services in October. Brian Armstrong, a former Airbnb engineer, founded the Coinbase company, and later on, he was joined by Goldman Sachs, a trader, before becoming the company's co-founder.The idea behind Coinbase was developed in 2012, whose objectivity was that anyone could quickly receive or send Bitcoin anywhere safely. Coinbase has raised a total funding of $547M in over 13 rounds, and the first funding round was in September 2012. The latest funding round was a post-IPO round in August 2021 for an undisclosed amount. One investor participated in the newest round of funding, which Intel led.

## Business Activities:
  Coinbase means a safe online forum for transferring, storing, buying, and selling cryptocurrency (crypto) whose goal is creating an open worldwide financial system and also being the leading global brand that helps people in conversion of crypto into and out of their domestic currency and through this it makes buying and selling crypto easy. Coinbase is a crypto-exchange platform hence the targeted customers of Coinbase are the millennials in the range of 25-45 years from low-tech to high-tech individuals from around the world.
  The competitive advantage of Coinbase is that it offers to keep 98% of assets offline, in cold storage. Meanwhile, Coinbase offers two-step authentication through the Google Authenticator App or SMS. When Coinbase was founded back in 2012, only a few websites were used. Android applications the iOS were after that launched in 2013. However, in 2020, Coinbase mobile applications were utterly rewritten from the base using the React Native framework. Some reasons influenced the decision of the management to transition to a cross-platform solution from a native one. The company wishes to increase the growth rate and also the pace of iteration on mobile forums, improve coordination of more considerable systemic changes and connectivity among engineers of Coinbase working within the same platform and ensure improvement of quality and performance for customers of the company (Bjercke & Finlow-Bates, 2020).

## Landscape:
  Coinbase Global, Inc. belongs to the cryptocurrency industry and provides financial technology and infrastructure for the crypto economy in the United States and the entire world. The cryptocurrency industry has experienced various trends over the last 5 to 10 years, and these include:
 Increase in turbulence: Digital money costs have always been unpredictable, implying that costs have varied fiercely and, at times, by massive amounts. 
Developing adoption: The quantity of individuals that use cryptographic forms of money has consistently developed throughout the last 5 to 10 years, and this is due to various elements, such as the growing attention to cryptographic forms of money and the growing number of organizations that acknowledge them.
Expanded regulation: Administrations run by states worldwide have expanded the guidelines of the digital currency market due to concerns regarding the possible dangers of cryptocurrencies, such as money laundering and their use in financing terrorism.
  Other companies in the cryptocurrency industry include Binance.US- a cryptocurrency exchange company offering an initial coin offering (ICO), blockchain media, and blockchain funds. It was founded in 2019. Fonbnk is a cryptocurrency company operating as a global marketplace to convert airtime into digital money. It converts any prepaid SIM into a virtual debit card using a blockchain. ConsenSys is a cryptocurrency company operating as an Ethereum blockchain software company to help developers, people, and enterprises worldwide build next-generation applications. Cybrid refers to a Crypto Banking-as-a-Service provider founded in 2021 that enables its partners to launch cryptocurrency and defi products. TripleA is a Singapore-based cryptocurrency company that operates as a crypto payment gateway to allow businesses to accept crypto payments. It was founded in 2018. There are several more companies in the cryptocurrency industry worldwide. 

## Results
  They declined the use of paper money. Coinbase has contributed to declined use of paper money in businesses since many transactions are done digitally. Businesses that accept cryptocurrency do not risk dealing with physical currency that can be mishandled easily. Coinbase has also contributed to access to new liquidity and capital. Cryptocurrency can help businesses raise funding and improve financial liquidity. A business could be loaned cryptocurrency without being subjected to the limitations associated with getting loans of fiat money from a traditional bank (Kathiravan et al., 2019).
  Cryptocurrency companies use these metrics to measure success: capitalization of markets, funding rates, open interest, stablecoin flows, exchange flows, Fear and Greed Index, Network Value to Transactions ratio (NVT), and other metrics. Coinbase performs better than its competitors because it saves them from navigating the technicality typical of many other exchanges and cuts down on the steps needed to invest in cryptocurrency (Oxford Analytica, 2021). 

## Recommendations
  Coinbase should offer access to order types that it currently does not allow. Specifically, you could use limit and stop orders in addition to the standard market orders. Limit and stop orders give the company more control over its purchases and sales of cryptocurrency. This can be achieved with blockchain technology.
Blockchain technology refers to an innovative and integrated application of various Information Technologies. With the continued upgrade of blockchain technology, the core technical framework of blockchain gradually becomes clear. Private blockchains control and protect information not to be accessed by third parties. If an organization sets up this technology network, only a few selected can access and change the information.

## Addendum
Bjercke, B., & Finlow-Bates, K. (2020). Decoupling Bitcoins from Their Transaction History Using the Coinbase Transaction.
Kathiravan, C., Selvam, M., Maniam, B., Venkateswar, S., Gayathri, J., & Pavithran, A. (2019). Effect of weather on cryptocurrency index: Evidences from coinbase index. International Journal of Financial Research, 10(4), 108-118.
Oxford Analytica. (2021). Coinbase listing will pave way for other exchanges. Emerald Expert Briefings, (oxan-es).
Shu, A., Cheng, F., Han, J., Liang, Z., & Pan, Z. (2023). Arbitrage across different Bitcoin exchange venues: Perspectives from investor base and market related events. Accounting & Finance.





